

                                         Goals


The goal of this project is to create a tool to help a user learn to speak a new
language in a way that satisfies the following criteria:
1. User is taught only through natural interaction: speaking/listening in conversation.
2. Material follows a curated curriculum, though this is not visible to the user.
3. Material can be generated indefinitely without repetition.
I believe that a user which practices with such a tool consistently and persistently
will inevitably learn to speak the new language, but existing programs for language
learning satisfy at most two of the three criteria. The old-fashioned way (live in a
country, learn their language) satisfies 1 and 3 but not 2, audio-based
call-and-response programs like Pimsleur satisfy 1 and 2 but not 3, and modern popular
language learning apps like Duo Lingo satisy 2 and 3 but not 1. These three criteria are
essential if the user hopes to gain fluency from one single program.

By natural interaction I mean listening and speaking in real conversations, as one
learns their native language as a child, and not through synthetic language learning
exercises such as multiple choice questions or conjugation tables. If speaking and
listening in the new language is to become automatic, then learning should follow a
program that promotes automatic usage: by automatic usage I mean speaking and listening
on the spot, followed by a spoken response by the user or more listening. When a person
trains for this kind of on-the-spot recall to the point of proficiency, then usage of
the new language becomes instinctual and automatic, hopefully in a similar way as the
native tongue. After being taught with natural learning methods such as the Harkness
method and Tarrasch's approach to teaching chess, I strongly believe in the importance
of learning through natural interaction as opposed to learning by being lectured. I do
not think that fluency in a new language can ever come by filling out worksheets or
reading about the language: the only real way to learn a language is to use the language
naturally. This is the first desiderata of our tool.

However, language learning through natural interaction has some drawbacks. The most
apparent is practicality: it is often said that it is impossible to become fluent in a
language without living in a country which primarily speaks that language. At the very
least, one should have consistent interactions with native speakers. Unfortunately, this
may not be possible or practical for many people. Another drawback of learning from
natural interaction is in the choice of material: during natural conversations, the
student may be exposed to linguistic concepts which are either too difficult or too easy
to help the learning process. A curated curriculum is one strength of the traditional
style of language learning, and this quality is absent from natural conversation. The
curated curriculum is the second desiderata of our tool.

The two drawbacks of learning from natural interaction (potential lack of native
speakers, lack of curated curriculum) were tackled by some modern language learning
programs, which teach through call-and-response audio lessons with curated curriculums
(I think Pimsleur does a particularly good job of this). However, these programs suffer
from one weakness which limits their usefulness for reaching fluency: limited content.
Each Pimsleur program involve about 50 hours for a given language, made of 100
conversations that are carefully written to follow a curriculum, involve repetition of
words and concepts to maximize retention, emphasize correct pronunciation, and so on.
After this, each conversation must be recorded by voice actors. The cost of this process
limits the amount of possible content: it is simply impractical to write enough of this
material so that a user can become fluent using the material alone. However, modern
language and speech processing technology give us a solution: automatic content
generation. We can generate text in response to prompts to create a conversation,
translate between languages, convert text to audio, analyze pronunciation, and more.
These capabilities enable endless content generation which can allow a user to practice
speaking/listening indefinitely while never repeating material and constantly being
exposed to new words and linguistic styles. This brings us to our final desiderata:
indefinite generation of material without repetition.

No existing program for learning new languages satisfies all three criteria listed
above. Creating such a system could unlock a new way for the determined user to learn a
new language, and this is exactly what I hope do to with this project.
